Update for the COMSOL documentation (#579)
NREL/HPC: docs/Documentation/Applications/comsol.md

*COMSOL Multiphysics is a versatile finite element analysis and simulation package. The COMSOL graphical user interface (GUI) environment is supported primarily for building and solving small models while operation in batch mode allows users to scale their models to larger, higher-fidelity studies.*

> Currently, we host three floating network licenses and a number of additional modules. Issue the command `lmstat.comsol` to see current license status and COMSOL modules availability.

Reviewer: We shouldn't direct users to issue the lmstat.comsol command before explaining how to set up the script to make that command work. Since we explain below how to set up the lmstat.comsol command and how to use it to check license status, I think the line here ("Issue the command `lmstat.comsol` to see current license status and COMSOL modules availability.") can just be removed.

For instructional videos, see the [COMSOL website](https://www.comsol.com) Video Gallery.

## Building Models in the COMSOL GUI

> Before beginning, it is good practice to check the license status with:

Reviewer: I can't put a comment on a line you didn't edit, but I think this should be removed since it doesn't work on Kestrel: 
"Issue the command `lmstat.comsol` to see current license status and COMSOL modules available." in the introductory paragraph. I think the next section explaining how to check license availability on Kestrel is sufficient.

> Before beginning, it is good practice to check the license status. To do so create a bash script named lmstat.comsol in your working directory and excute it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before beginning, it is good practice to check the license status. To do so create a bash script named lmstat.comsol in your working directory and execute it:
```

???+ example "License Checker Script"

     ```bash
     #!/bin/bash
     COMSOL_LIC_DIR=/nopt/nrel/apps/software/comsol/6.1/comsol61/multiphysics/license/glnxa64
     cd $COMSOL_LIC_DIR
     ./lmstat -a --no-user-info -c ../license.dat
     ```
     
```
[user@kl3 ~]$ ./lmstat.comsol
```

When licenses are available, COMSOL can be used by starting the COMSOL GUI which allows you to build models, run the COMSOL computational engine, and analyze results. The COMSOL GUI can be accessed through a [FastX desktop](https://kestrel-dav.hpc.nrel.gov/auth/ssh/) by opening a terminal and running the following commands:

```
[user@kl3 ~]$ module load comsol/6.1
[user@kl3 ~]$ vglrun comsol &
```

> Because FastX desktop sessions are supported from DAV nodes shared between multiple HPC users, limits are placed on how much memory and compute resources can be consumed by a single user/job. For this reason, it is recommended that the GUI be primarily used to define the problem and run small-scale tests to validate its operation before moving the model to a compute node for larger-scale runs. For jobs that require both large-scale compute resources and GUI interactivity simultaneously, there is partial support for running the GUI from an X-enabled shell (ssh -Y ...) on a compute node by replacing the `vglrun comosl` command with:

Reviewer: The prompt below should be changed to have a kestrel node name. 

Also, it might help if all of the steps for running the GUI from a compute node are shown (like including the command for requesting the interactive node), there have been some questions on that from users.

> Because FastX desktop sessions are supported from DAV nodes shared between multiple HPC users, limits are placed on how much memory and compute resources can be consumed by a single user/job. For this reason, it is recommended that the GUI be primarily used to define the problem and run small-scale tests to validate its operation before moving the model to a compute node for larger-scale runs. For jobs that require both large-scale compute resources and GUI interactivity simultaneously, there is partial support for running the GUI from an X-enabled shell (ssh -Y ...) on a compute node by replacing the `vglrun comosl` command with:

Reviewer: Typo in `vglrun comosl`. Should be `vglrun comsol`

However, the performance may be slow and certain display features may behave unexpectedly.

> ## Running a Single-node COMSOL Model in Batch Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running a Single-Node COMSOL Model in Batch Mode
```

???+ example "Example Submission Script"

    ```bash
    #!/bin/bash                                                                                                                                                                                     
    #SBATCH --job-name="comsol-batch-single-node"                                                                                                                                                   
    #SBATCH --nodes=1                                                                                                                                                                               
    #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=104                                                                                                                                                                   
    #SBATCH --cpus-per-task=1                                                                                                                                                                       
    #SBATCH --time=00:10:0        
    #SBATCH --partition=debug

>     #SBATCH --exclusive

Reviewer: --exclusive isn't necessary on Kestrel (nodes are always exclusive unless partition is specified as shared). It's not changing any behavior having it in the script, but I think it's best to leave out to avoid any confusion. Same for the other example script.

>     #SBATCH --account=hpcapps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    #SBATCH --account=<allocation handle>
```

    outputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myoutputfilename
    logfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/mylogfilename

    # Run a COMSOL job with 104 tasks (ranks).
    # -nn = total number of tasks
    # -nnhost = number of tasks per host
    # -np = number of threads per task

    comsol batch -nn 104 -nnhost 104 -np 1 -inputfile $inputfile -outputfile $outputfile –batchlog $logfile
    ```

Once this script file (e.g., `submit_single_node_job.sh`) is saved, it can be submitted to the job scheduler with

```
[user@kl3 ~]$ sbatch ./submit_single_node_job.sh
```

> ## Running a Multi-node COMSOL Model in Batch Mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running a Multi-Node COMSOL Model in Batch Mode
```

    #SBATCH --nodes=4                                                                                                                                                                               
    #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=8                                                                                                                                                                     
    #SBATCH --cpus-per-task=13                                                                                                                                                                      
    #SBATCH --time=00:10:0                                                                                                                                                                          
    #SBATCH --partition=debug                                                                                                                                                                       
    #SBATCH --exclusive                                                                                                                                                                             

>     #SBATCH --account=hpcapps                                                                                                                                                                       

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    #SBATCH --account=<allocation handle>                                                                                                                                                                  
```

    # from which you ran the sbatch command                                                                                                                                                         
    SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR= <your working directory>
    cd $SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR

    # Set up environment, and list to stdout for verification                                                                                                                                       
    module load comsol/6.1
    echo " "
    module list
    echo " "

    export SLURM_MPI_TYPE=pmi2
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=13

    inputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myinputfile.mph
    outputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myoutputfilename
    logfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/mylogfilename

    # Run a 4-node job with 32 MPI ranks and 13 OpenMP threads per each rank.                                                                                                                        
    comsol batch -mpibootstrap slurm -inputfile $inputfile -outputfile $outputfile –batchlog $logfile
    ```

> The job script can be submitted to SLURM just the same as above for the single-node example. The option `-mpibootstrap slurm` helps COMSOL to deduce runtime parameters such as `-nn`, `-nnhost` and `-np`. For large jobs that require more than one node, this approach, which uses MPI or/and OpenMP, can be used to efficiently utilize the available resources. Note that in this case, we choose 32 MPI ranks, 8 per node, and each rank using 13 threads for demonstration purpose, but *not* as an optimal performance recommendation. The optimal configuration depends on your particular problem, workload, and choice of solver, so some experimentation may be required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The job script can be submitted to SLURM just the same as above for the single-node example. The option `-mpibootstrap slurm` helps COMSOL to deduce runtime parameters such as `-nn`, `-nnhost` and `-np`. For large jobs that require more than one node, this approach, which uses MPI and/or OpenMP, can be used to efficiently utilize the available resources. Note that in this case, we choose 32 MPI ranks, 8 per node, and each rank using 13 threads for demonstration purpose, but *not* as an optimal performance recommendation. The optimal configuration depends on your particular problem, workload, and choice of solver, so some experimentation may be required.
```

    echo " "

    export SLURM_MPI_TYPE=pmi2
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=13

    inputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myinputfile.mph
    outputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myoutputfilename
    logfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/mylogfilename

    # Run a 4-node job with 32 MPI ranks and 13 OpenMP threads per each rank.                                                                                                                        
    comsol batch -mpibootstrap slurm -inputfile $inputfile -outputfile $outputfile –batchlog $logfile
    ```

The job script can be submitted to SLURM just the same as above for the single-node example. The option `-mpibootstrap slurm` helps COMSOL to deduce runtime parameters such as `-nn`, `-nnhost` and `-np`. For large jobs that require more than one node, this approach, which uses MPI and/or OpenMP, can be used to efficiently utilize the available resources. Note that in this case, we choose 32 MPI ranks, 8 per node, and each rank using 13 threads for demonstration purpose, but *not* as an optimal performance recommendation. The optimal configuration depends on your particular problem, workload, and choice of solver, so some experimentation may be required.

> The Complex Systems Simulation and Optimization group has hosted introductory and advanced COMSOL trainings. The introductory training covered how to use the COMSOL GUI and run COMSOL in batch mode on Kestrel. The advanced training showed how to do a parametric study using different sweeps (running an interactive session is also included) and introduced equation-based simulation and parameter estimation. To learn more about using COMSOL on Kestrel, please refer to the training. The recording can be accessed at [Computational Sciences Tutorials](https://nrel.sharepoint.com/sites/ComputationalSciencesTutorials/Lists/Computational%20Sciences%20Tutorial%20Recordings/AllItems.aspx?viewid=7b97e3fa%2Dedf6%2D48cd%2D91d6%2Df69848525ba4&playlistLayout=playback&itemId=75) and the slides and models used in the training can be downloaded from [Github](https://github.nrel.gov/hpc-apps/COMSOL-Training).

Author: @xinhe2205 is okay with either option.

> The Complex Systems Simulation and Optimization group has hosted introductory and advanced COMSOL trainings. The introductory training covered how to use the COMSOL GUI and run COMSOL in batch mode on Kestrel. The advanced training showed how to do a parametric study using different sweeps (running an interactive session is also included) and introduced equation-based simulation and parameter estimation. To learn more about using COMSOL on Kestrel, please refer to the training. The recording can be accessed at [Computational Sciences Tutorials](https://nrel.sharepoint.com/sites/ComputationalSciencesTutorials/Lists/Computational%20Sciences%20Tutorial%20Recordings/AllItems.aspx?viewid=7b97e3fa%2Dedf6%2D48cd%2D91d6%2Df69848525ba4&playlistLayout=playback&itemId=75) and the slides and models used in the training can be downloaded from [Github](https://github.nrel.gov/hpc-apps/COMSOL-Training).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Complex Systems Simulation and Optimization group has hosted introductory and advanced COMSOL trainings. The introductory training covered how to use the COMSOL GUI and run COMSOL in batch mode on Kestrel. The advanced training showed how to do a parametric study using different sweeps (running an interactive session is also included) and introduced equation-based simulation and parameter estimation. To learn more about using COMSOL on Kestrel, please refer to the training. The recording can be accessed at [Computational Sciences Tutorials](https://nrel.sharepoint.com/sites/ComputationalSciencesTutorials/Lists/Computational%20Sciences%20Tutorial%20Recordings/AllItems.aspx?viewid=7b97e3fa%2Dedf6%2D48cd%2D91d6%2Df69848525ba4&playlistLayout=playback&itemId=75) and the slides and models used in the training can be downloaded from [Github](https://github.com/NREL/HPC/tree/master/applications/comsol/comsol-training).
```

    echo " "

    export SLURM_MPI_TYPE=pmi2
    export OMP_NUM_THREADS=13

    inputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myinputfile.mph
    outputfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/myoutputfilename
    logfile=$SLURM_SUBMIT_DIR/mylogfilename

    # Run a 4-node job with 32 MPI ranks and 13 OpenMP threads per each rank.                                                                                                                        
    comsol batch -mpibootstrap slurm -inputfile $inputfile -outputfile $outputfile –batchlog $logfile
    ```

The job script can be submitted to SLURM just the same as above for the single-node example. The option `-mpibootstrap slurm` helps COMSOL to deduce runtime parameters such as `-nn`, `-nnhost` and `-np`. For large jobs that require more than one node, this approach, which uses MPI and/or OpenMP, can be used to efficiently utilize the available resources. Note that in this case, we choose 32 MPI ranks, 8 per node, and each rank using 13 threads for demonstration purpose, but *not* as an optimal performance recommendation. The optimal configuration depends on your particular problem, workload, and choice of solver, so some experimentation may be required.

> The Complex Systems Simulation and Optimization group has hosted an introductory and advanced COMSOL trainings. The introductrory training covered how to use COMSOL GUI and run COMSOL in batch mode on Kestrel while the advanced training showed how to do parametric study using different sweeps (run interactive session is also included), introduced equation-based simulation and parameter estimation. To learn more about using COMSOL on Kestrel, please refer to the training. The recording can be accessed at https://nrel.sharepoint.com/sites/ComputationalSciencesTutorials/Lists/Computational%20Sciences%20Tutorial%20Recordings/AllItems.aspx?viewid=7b97e3fa%2Dedf6%2D48cd%2D91d6%2Df69848525ba4&playlistLayout=playback&itemId=75 and the slides and models used in the training can be downloaded from https://github.nrel.gov/hpc-apps/COMSOL-Training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Complex Systems Simulation and Optimization group has hosted introductory and advanced COMSOL trainings. The introductory training covered how to use the COMSOL GUI and run COMSOL in batch mode on Kestrel. The advanced training showed how to do a parametric study using different sweeps (running an interactive session is also included) and introduced equation-based simulation and parameter estimation. To learn more about using COMSOL on Kestrel, please refer to the training. The recording can be accessed at https://nrel.sharepoint.com/sites/ComputationalSciencesTutorials/Lists/Computational%20Sciences%20Tutorial%20Recordings/AllItems.aspx?viewid=7b97e3fa%2Dedf6%2D48cd%2D91d6%2Df69848525ba4&playlistLayout=playback&itemId=75 and the slides and models used in the training can be downloaded from https://github.nrel.gov/hpc-apps/COMSOL-Training.
```

Reviewer: Can you format the link? https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#links
